# Linker_Implementation
Created a C program for pass1 linking loader and pass2 linking loader


In computing, a linker also called as link editor is a computer system program that takes one or more object files
which is generated by the compiler or assembler and combines them into a single executable file. 
The linker also takes care of arranging the objects in a program’s address space.

The general aim of this project is to simulate the working of a linker. As it is an important component in the stages of execution,
its working and fundamental concepts will be highlighted and implemented through this project.

Linking is performed at both compile time, when source code is translated to machine code and load time, when the program is loaded into memory by loader.
  
Source Code->Compiler->Assembler->Object code->Linker->Executable File->Loader

In first pass External Symbol Table(ESTAB) is generated. This can also be accessible later by pass 2.
It is used to store the name and address of each External Symbols in a set of Control Sections and also
it assigns address to all External Symbols. It has two variables PROGADDR and CSADDR.
PROGADDR is the beginning address in memory where the linked program is to be loaded, 
and CSADDR contains the starting address assigned to the control section currently being scanned by the loader.
               
               
Pass 2 linking loader performs actual loading, relocation, and linking. It uses modification record and lookup
the symbol in ESTAB to obtain its address. Finally it uses end record of a main program to obtain transfer address,
which is a starting address needed for the execution of the program. The pass 2 process Text record and Modification record of the object programs.

